OK in the last section we discuss callbacks and now we'll look at an application of callbacks for each
function.
So our objective for this one are pretty simple.
First we're going to describe and use the for each function and then we're going to implement that for
each function.
Let's start out with an example of something that's not using for each.
And then we'll see how we can refactor that code into something that we'll use for each In this example.
We've got a function called double.
It takes an array as input and it multiplies it by two.
So in this case we'll get to four six eight ten and twelve princes of the con.
OK let's take a look at this in the console.
So first time I create my array
I've already got loads here and then my double function is just going to loop through every element
of that array and multiply attempts to cancel log that result.
So when I invoke this function and pass in the array I'll get two four six eight 10 12.
So that's our double function.
Next up we're going to see how we can refactor this to use for each as you can see the code that uses
for each is similar to the last example except that we no longer have to implement the loop ourselves.
Instead for each will implement a loop for us and the way it works is for every element in that array
that callback that were provided providing will be invoked and the number that is passed here is first
the first element number one and then the second element number two the third element 3.
The fourth element for the Fifth Element 5 and finally is 6 6.
So this callback function will be invoked.
One two three four five six times.
Now the definition of for each.
So for each is a function that takes an array as a parameter and a callback.
And remember the callback is not something for each implements it's given to for each as a parameter.
So for each doesn't care what the callback will do.
It just invokes it for each element in the array.
For each will invoke your callback with three parameters every time.
So you always get the current element the current index and your entire array as a parameter.
Now it's up to you when you implement your callback function whether or not you want to use all three
parameters.
Here's an example of for each With all the callback parameters the example iterates through the array
of strings and builds a result string with spaces between each word and for the final word instead of
adding a space we had three exclamation points.
So for this example we need to know the current element that we're on we need to know the index that
we're on.
And we also need to know the length of the entire array.
Let's walk through this code step by step and see what's going on here the for each function is going
to invoke this callback on the first element in the array which in this case is my the string my index
of that element is 0.
And we're also going to get the entire array which is this entire string's array so in this case the
element that we're on is not equal to a rate length minus one.
In other words it's not the last element in the array.
So we're going to append that string the string that we're currently on with an empty space to our results.
Now our results by the end will be the entire string.
So so far we've got MY with a space after it.
OK moving on to the next iteration.
Now we see that we're on the for each element in IRA.
So we finished with my callback.
Now moving on to the for each string is equal to for each.
The indexes equal to 1.
And again the array is equal to the whole string's array.
The same thing happens here.
The element that we're on is not the last element.
So we're going to concatenate the string for each with a space at the end to the result that we already
had.
So 4 result is now my space for each space
and finally we're on the the last element in the array example.
So string is equal to example indexes equal to 2.
And again the array is the same strings right.
This time the if statement is false.
So the index that we're on is equal to the last element in the array.
We'll go down to this L section and rather than adding a blank space at the end of our string we had
three exclamation marks.
So by the time this for each loop is all done we're going to get a result that looks like my space for
each space example exclamation exclamation exclamation.
All right.
So now it's time to implement for each Let's do that in the con..
So the first thing we're going to want to do is define our for each function and remember it takes first
an array and second call callback.
Now what does for each do well on every element in the array and invokes that callback given the element
the index and the entire array.
So in order to make this work we're going to need to loop through every element in the array all use
a for loop here.
I'll start at zero.
I use less than the array length and I will keep incrementing.
And now all we have to do here
is invoke our callback with the parameters.
So I'm going to invoke the callback with the first element being the element that we're on right array
of I.
That's our element.
The second parameter is going to be itself index that we're currently on.
And the third parameter is the entire array.
OK so that'll do it.
That's our implementation for for each.
We're looping through every element in the array we're invoking the callback.
We don't care what the callback is or what it's doing.
We just know that it should be a function and then we're going to pass the element that we're on the
index that we're on and the array to that callback.
And then this should work with all of our examples that we've seen so far.